ICT has developed tremendously over the last twenty years, and as a result I have a keen interest in these changes and would like to be a part of them. From an early age, I have always been deeply interested in using computers, which are the most influential tool in my live. It was my father who first introduced me to computers in my country of birth “Afghanistan”. I studied ICT GNVQ intermediate and I am currently studying for the AVCE in ICT, which has led me wanting to study Computer Science to a much greater depth and this has been the obvious subject for my university course.

Studying Business Studies and Psychology at an advanced level has been very helpful in developing my research and academic writing skills. I am also studying Urdu at an advanced level although it is not my mother tongue, which is Pashto.

I am a hard working and currently work at my local CostCutter store as a staff coordinator, which involves managing employees and creating work schedules. This position has allowed me to develop my sales and people skills, and also through school I have successfully completed two periods of work experience at Homebase Plc and an Accountant’s Office. At Homebase I have worked as an assistant employee on the shop floor, where I had to help customers to find the right product for them. As an office assistant at the Accountant’s office, I helped organise and file customer files, which helped me improve my accuracy of administration work. I also answered and transferred customer calls to the correct staff member, which increased the level of my confidence in the work place and communicating with others.

As a sport person, I have represented my school in the successful football team and currently I play cricket for Crouch End Cricket Club, and hope to continue these interests at university. At school I have helped run Christmas parties for local senior citizens and students from an adjacent special needs school. These were enlightening experiences as I had not had much contact with either group of people in this country since coming to the UK nearly five years ago. I have acted as a translator for new students and their parents who have no English skills, as I had no spoken or written English when I arrived in the UK. I understand the difficulties they face and am proud to use my language skills in Pashto, Urdu, Punjabi, Dari and Hindi to help them.

I am proud of the level of fluency I have achieved in English and of the academic sporting and social successes I have had so far. At university I will continue to work to achieve even more and make full use of all the facilities university has to offer. Going to university is one of my life’s dreams and although I know it will take a lot of effort to succeed and in the word of a friend, "do what your heart says - it will bring greater riches".