I come from a background where my family has been in the retail trade for the last hundred years. Whist I was growing up I have been actively taking part in the running of the business. My family has given me the opportunity to further myself in achieving my goals. I believe studying at university will give me the opportunity to progress in the understanding I currently have in Business Studies and ICT. I believe that I can combine my interest in Business Studies and Accounts to excel in Business Management

At my secondary school I was handed the privilege and the responsibility of being head prefect. My responsibilities included attending meetings with the school principal and school staff. I believe these installed essential characteristics such as leadership

I was also the school football captain and represented the school at many inter-schools sports activities. Furthermore I represented the Wildlife Conservation Society of Zambia, which is a charitable organisationfor the protection of wildlife in Zambian Game Parks. Part of my duties included giving talks to other students concerning conservation and wildlife. I thoroughly enjoyed this particular segment of my work because conservation is an issue close to my heart

I am presently enrolled at Redbridge College in Romford where I am studying three A2 courses in Mathematics, ICT and Business Studies, and one AS-Level in Accounts. I do take part in several sports activities not only to remain in good physical shape but also meet new people. I did not achieve all my targets but I am confident that with extra effort and help from my tutors I will push past my predicted grades. I have drawn up a plan of what needs to be done over the next few months in achieving this. Over the last year I have developed at a personnel level. I understand that the onus is on me to push myself to achieve my ambitions

Outside of college I have a passion for sports both for enjoyment purposes and maintaining fitness. Football is at the centre of my love for sport, but I also enjoy and participate in other sporting activities such as cricket, squash, badminton, tennis, table tennis and long distance running. I am hoping to carry on these activities whilst conducting my studies at university. I believe sports play an important role in providing a balance between education and physical wellbeing

It has long been my ambition to complete my studies at a British university. As it is well established Britain has the finest reputation for higher education around the world. A degree from a British university will assist me in my future career. I am very much looking forward to educational challenges that university has in store for me. I am also looking forward to meeting the different cultures and backgrounds that will exist of any university. But most importantly I believe I have the prerequisites not only to achieve a good degree but to progress at a personal level. This would act as a foundation for any future success in the business world.