I am one of ten, so you may see why I would like to work with children. I wasn't always sure as to what profession I would like to join but for the past couple of years it has became apparent that I want to work with children. This was mainly influenced by a new addition to my family, my nephew. For the past year I have helped develop his skills and encouraged him to learn new things. I truly value the sense of achievement gained in teaching new skills to children and I wish to continue to do so, and this is therefore one of the main reasons for wanting to join a teaching course for key stages 1 and 2.

Discovering my love for helping and supporting others I chose to broaden my knowledge of the teaching experience by completing two work experience placements within a primary school environment. For two weeks I shadowed various teaching staff, observing their teaching techniques and the ways in which they support the children. I found each day a new challenge as new faces, new personalities were emerging which brought various obstacles my way as different methods of teaching were needed. The most enjoyable aspect of this work environment is that no day is ever the same. -New lessons, new people. It was exciting to know I had the opportunity to assist in someone's learning, gaining satisfaction from seeing the new skill acquired.

This particular experience, working within a primary school environment, allowed me to acquire a number of skills and also help enhance my weaker ones. I have always acknowledged the fact that I can be a very good listener and a good communicator which is an important quality needed. I found that my communication ability improved as I got to know students which encouraged my confidence to escalate. I am able to work well independently and can also work very well as part as a team, which became obvious to me during my stay at my placement. I have also demonstrated this throughout the majority of my school experience, for example, when playing team sports, such as Netball, Rounders, Badminton, Athletics, etc.

During my school experience I have embarked on a number of activities which exhibit my more positive qualities that I have thoroughly developed within the past few years. Such activities include helping out at events such as Open Days, Parents' Evenings, Welcome Club, etc. In doing so, I have shown I am a polite, mature, organized and committed young adult.

I am currently a School Prefect and buddy, working closely with the years 7, 8 and 9 students. My role is to represent the school in a positive and professional manner. I believe I do this well as I portray an enthusiastic, responsible and reliable image. In order for me to have been considered to be a Prefect or a buddy I needed to have the essential qualities for that particular role. Such qualities needed are congruence, resilience and assertiveness. These specific qualities, I believe, have been made evident to my teaching staff as a result of the community work in school I have taken part in. I have accomplished my British Red Cross basic First Aid certificate which I completed at school. I have also achieved my Food Hygiene, Business Dynamics and Junior Sports Leadership Certificates.

I am very much looking forward to expanding my practical and theoretical knowledge by attending university. In pursuing a degree in teaching, I seek to advance my knowledge of educational studies and improve my personal skills. I ask you to give me the opportunity to further my education as I know I have the commitment, the patience and the persistence to succeed.