On a vacation to the Krak des Chevaliers and Palmyra in the Syrian Desert, I witnessed the rich culture of the Middle Eastern people. This region is generally perceived by western democracies as a constant source of political and social turmoil. This may be true for the most part; however, many areas in the region are as modern and peaceful as any western nation.
Further to being raised in a multi-cultural family with a Beirut-born father of Palestinian, Syrian and Armenian heritage and a Maltese mother, I have developed a strong interest in foreign cultures. Therefore, I believe that Political Science will be the most appropriate and applicable course to pursue given both my personal background and interests.
As one of Canada’s most cosmopolitan cities, my native Toronto attracts many foreigners: some are looking for better living conditions and job opportunities; others are on exchange to learn English and benefit from higher education. As a child growing up in this vibrant city, I would look forward to my family housing exchange students. This rewarding experience prompted me to volunteer at summer camps, where I taught ESL to students from 6 to 18 years of age.
My many encounters and experiences with foreign cultures have nourished my passion for travel. This was fostered by my parents who, three years ago, decided to move our family to the Turks and Caicos Islands, a small but rapidly developing country in the Northern Caribbean. Many deprived nations in the region, such as Haiti, have seen their people immigrate to the TCI, whose economic stability has been underpinned by many of these immigrants who have undertaken most of the menial work necessary for a flourishing economy. However, I have too often witnessed many of these workers being the victims of exploitation and discrimination.
During an internship at the Magistrate’s Court in the summer of 2008, I personally marshalled the Court Magistrate and took a particular interest in Immigration Law and the consequences of working in a country illegally. Further to working at the courts, I interned at a law firm, where I was given the opportunity to shadow lawyers at the Labour Tribunal and see, first-hand, the exploitation of workers, and their employers' disregard for labour laws.
After successfully completing my IGCSE's, I have enjoyed the challenge of Advanced level studies in Geography, History, Business Studies and English Literature. As a young Geographer, I have attended local conferences, such as the symposium, “Fostering a Green Culture”, with former US vice-president, Al Gore, as the main speaker on the contentious topic of climate change.
My perception of how environmental issues affect all aspects of human welfare was reinforced when I was selected to spend a day with the Minister of Natural Resources. Last September, I was able to further develop my knowledge of local environmental issues, as I witnessed the impact of hurricane Ike on the welfare of residents and the economy.
At school, I eagerly participate in many social activities. I particularly enjoy being a mentor to younger students, whom I advise and tutor whenever needed. I have been able to further develop both my leadership and communication skills, as I was selected as Deputy Head Boy by the Principal and elected House Captain by my peers.
Being a team player is vital to me. I have tried to do so by being an active member of the Yorkland swim team, trumpeter in the school orchestral band, Senior Editor of the yearbook and the Current Events Editor of the school newspaper. As a result, my enthusiasm and dependability within the school were rewarded when I received the "Top Student in Year 12" award, an achievement that I hope to repeat in my final year of A-Levels.
I hope this presents to you a well-rounded student, equipped with the skills necessary to succeed at university. I look forward to being introduced to new academic and social challenges as well as experiencing European culture.