After I graduated high school, I had no idea what careers appealed to me. For my first two years of university, I
searched for a calling, a class that would change my life and direct my studies. I enrolled in a wide variety of
courses in a wide variety of departments. I learned about ethical relativism and general relativity
(anthropology and astronomy), cubic functions and cubism (calculus and art history), similes and syllogisms
(English and logic), p-tests and p-zombies (statistics and philosophy), brain structure and post-structuralism
(psychology and politics) and much more. These classes taught me a lot about the world but the most valuable
things I learned were about myself. I won’t leave you in suspense; no one class transformed my life. And what
I have come to realize is that no class likely ever will. Instead I learned that I have a set of skills and passions
that make a career in law the right choice for me.
I learned that I enjoy the rigorous thinking of math and statistics but that the world is rarely so black and
white. This influenced my decision to pursue economics, my undergraduate major. I love economics because it
blends abstract theory with real world applications. For every mathematical model I have studied, I have also
learned how to apply this model for positive changes in the environment, healthcare, developing countries,
and domestic policy. Similarly, law requires a certain type of abstract thought while still being firmly rooted in
reality. It is challenging, but knowledge and understanding of the law can be a valuable tool in facilitating
positive change. My education has also taught me to look at problems from multiple perspectives, a skill I
started developing in high school. A big part of my life in high school was competitive debating. I competed
and ranked highly in numerous tournaments on the regional, provincial, national, and international levels. I
twice represented Canada at the World Individuals Public Speaking and Debating Championship. These
experiences taught me to see both sides of an issue, think critically, speak confidently, and to differentiate a
strong argument from strong rhetoric. This year I am assisting several first-year university students in reviving
my university’s competitive debating society.
My time in undergraduate schooling has also taught me that I love to learn. I currently hold a near-perfect
GPA but this is not because of an innate intelligence or grade-fixation. I attribute my academic success far
more to hard work and a love of learning. From what I have heard, law school can be a very difficult
experience without these attributes. The last thing that I have learnt over the past four years is what gives me
a sense of fulfillment. Every summer since 2008 I have taken out canoe trips in northern Ontario, ranging in
length from one night to four weeks. I find these trips inspiring and especially rewarding. I have led trips for
inner-city youth, youth with type I diabetes, and at a camp for burn survivors. Some came from disadvantaged
backgrounds and some were facing major challenges in their lives. Some were strong and fit and others really
struggled with the daily routine of paddling, portaging, and cooking over a fire. For me the challenge was to
make the trip a fulfilling experience for all of them, and accomplishing this challenge was what motivated me.
There is no better feeling than finishing a long day, lying down in your tent and thinking wow, we really did a
lot of good today. I want to get the same feeling from my career.
Deciding on a career has not been a straightforward process for me. But the self-knowledge I have gained over
the last four years makes it clear to me that law is the right choice. Economics has given me a deeper
understanding of the world and my place in it, but understanding is not enough. I want to improve the
systems that directly effect people’s daily lives, specifically through work in domestic public policy.
This may sound naive. Many people have left university with this dream only to be knocked in the teeth by
reality. And I am prepared for this. I may not be able to facilitate all the change I would like, but if I am able to
lie down at the end of the day and say wow, we really did a lot of good today, I know that I will be satisfied. I
believe that an education in law is an extremely useful tool in making this dream happen.
I want to attend The University of Toronto because it has an unparalleled reputation in terms of the quality of
students, faculty, and education. Law students at U of T do not need to wait until graduation to start having a
positive impact on their community. They do so through various legal clinics and pro bono work. Their
commitment to the local and global community makes this university my top choice among law schools.
Please consider me for admission.